- [Instructor] The last bit of the JSR Validations Demo
is localizing error messages for validations
from the .properties file.
If you look in our user java bean, we have specified
all the messages right there.
Instead of that, you could move these messages
to a .properties file, so that if you want to reuse them
for any other purpose, you can do so.
Now for that, what you have to do is
simply add a file under the resources folder,
and the name of the file
should be validationmessages.properties.
And under this validationmessages.properties,
you can define the keys and the messages.
And that will be in the form of key and value pair.
So let's go back to the user bean,
and let's say we want to make sure
that this message is localized, so let's copy this,
and go to the properties file,
and let's define a key for that message,
let's say we call it username.not.empty,
and that will be equal to the actual message.
And then, you can go back to your user bean,
and instead of directly embedding this message here,
you can access that message this way.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to grab the key
from the file, come back to user,
and within a pair of curly brackets,
I'm going to access that message.
That's all that you have to do.
Likewise, you can go and put all of these message
inside the .properties file, define appropriate keys
for it, and then read those from the user bean.
Now, another thing is the validation that goes
on defining the keys is completely left to the project,
the only thing is that when you read the key,
you should be able to understand what it tries to tell you.
So I'm just going to go ahead and modify this a little bit,
because it is not completely aligned with the message,
so let's say username.cannot.be.less.than.six.characters,
something like that.
It could be as long as you wish,
could be as short as you want,
it's completely left to the design that you have decided
to go for.
So I'm going to change that key and put in here.
So now what I'm trying to do is I'm trying to read
that message from the properties file.
So when you plug in this properties file
under your resources, then Springboard and MVC project,
they're going to pick up those messages
from the properties files by default.
But please note that this properties file
has to be directly under the resources folder,
so that it is available on the class spot
and accessible to the framework.
So let's stop this, run the build again,
and then check out whether the username
gets displayed through the properties file now
instead from the user bean directly.
So let's go ahead,
and I'm going to run the home again, access login,
access register, and let's say I do not follow anything,
so let's submit, and yes, the message is still red,
but this time, the message is coming in
from the .properties file.
So this is a standard practice, where you want to localize
all your error messages from a properties file
instead of hard coding them inside your user bean,
so that if there's any other bean that wants to use
the same message, you can pick it up
from the properties file instead of duplicating it
at multiple places.
There is one small thing to note here.
If you see when the validations ran and they failed,
of course, they displayed the error messages on the screen,
but the gender drop-down now is empty.
We are going to address this problem in a successive
part of the course, but I just wanted to make sure
that I take a moment and point that problem out,
so that when you build that use case in a later part
of the course, we remember what problem
we are trying to solve.